In this hands on activity we
will be using SparkSQL to
query data from an SQL database.
First we will open
the SparkSQL Jupyter Notebook.
We will connect Spark to a Postgres table.
And then view the Spark DataFrame
schema and count the rows.
We will view the contents
of the data frame.
See how to filter rows and columns.
And finally perform aggregate
operation on a column.
Let's begin.
First, click on the browser icon,
the top of the toolbar.
>> [SOUND]
>> Next,
navigate to the Jupyter Notebook server.
It's localhost:8889.
Go to Downloads,
Big Data 3, Spark SQL.
To open the SparkSQL Notebook.
The first three cells have
already been entered for you.
First, we import the SQLContext, run this.
Next, we create an SQLContext
from the SparkContext run this.
And next, we'll create a Spark DataFrame
from a Postgres table.
We used the read attribute format.
The jdbc argument means that we're
using a Java database connection.
The next line sets the URL option.
It says we're using Postgres
database running on the local host.
The database name is Cloudera and
the username is Cloudera.
The second option, DB table,
says we want our data frame
to be the game clicks table.
And finally we call load.
Let's execute this.
You can see the schema of the data
frame by calling df.printschema.
This shows the name of each
column along with the data type.
We can count the rows in this
df frame by calling df.count.
We can look at the first five
rows by calling df.show(5)
This shows all the columns
in the data frame.
We can select specific columns
by using the select method.
Let's select just the User ID and
Team Level columns.
I'll enter df.select("userid",teamlevel.
Parenthesis.
And finally we only want to
see the top five rows.
So we'll do .show(5).
We can also select rows
that have a specific value.
Let's look for the rows where
the team level is greater than one.
We'll enter df.filter.
We'll specify that we want team level
greater than one by entering df,
square bracket, team level,
greater than one.
And again, we only want the user ID and
team level columns.
And finally only the first five rows.
We can use the group by method to
aggregate a particular column.
For example, the ishit column
has a value of zero or one.
And we can use group by to count how
many times each of these values occurs.
Or a df.groupby ishit, and
we'll call count to count the values
We can also perform aggregate statistical
operations on the data in a data frame.
Let's compute the mean and
sum values for ishit.
First we need to import
the statistical functions we'll
run from.pyspark.sql.functions
import star.
Next we'll run df.select
(mean) ishit,sum ishit
We can also join two data
frames on a particular column.
Let's join the existing data frame of the
game clicks table with the adclicks table.
First, we need to create data frame for
the adclicks table.
Let's go back up.
Copy the content of this cell,
Paste it.
We put the adclicks table
the data frame called df2.
And we'll change the db table
option to the adclicks.
Run it.
Let's print the schema of df2.
You can see that it also has
a column called user id.
So let's join the game clicks
data frame with the add
clicks data frame on this column.
We put the result in a new
data frame called merged.
We'll say merge = df.join.df2 "userid".
We'll run it.
Let's look at the schema.
We'll call merge.printschema.
We can see that this merged data frame
has the column for both game clicks and
adclicks.
Finally we'll look at the top five
rows in this merged data frame.
We'll run merge.show.